In this section let's discuss about generics and how generics make easy to design more flexible programs.
So what are generics.
I mean the gender definition here is where the gender except basically use to create gender classes
and methods which can work with different types.
So you can have the same method work with different types you can have the same class work with multiple
types.
That's basically what Gen X is used for.
What does it really mean.
So let's take an example to see this.
So I have a class called my list.
It is having a list of string values and I can add a string to it and remove the string from it.
So this is a basic my list I'm in is not really a complete list kind of functionality but it's a fairly
basic thing.
So if I am using let's say my list is new my list and I'm adding a value value 1 or value to this my
list can be used only to store and remove string values.
That's the only thing I can do with this particular my least I not be able to say I want to store integer
values.
I want to use a specific type of my own.
Then I would not be able to use it for that particular thing.
So even though the functionality looks generally great I'm adding a value removing a value from a list.
It's a very generic functionality.
However I want to be able to use this class for all my other requirements.
So how do I make this class generic.
So that's where the judge came up with this concept called genetics.
So what I can say is I'm saying I can create my list generic and I'll say this is the type.
So in every place where we use the type generally so here I was using string add string value instead
of that I would add the value rimu the value.
So I would start using this the as the class type So instead of saying list of string out a list of
B.
So wherever I would use string I would start putting this generic type D.
Thereby I would be able to create classes of other types as well.
So now if I want to use a generic thing so I can see my list of generic string is equal to.
New model is generic of string and I can add string values to it.
Now I can take my less generic integer of my list integer is equal to my less generic of integer and
I can now add integer values not only string an integer you can add any Java class as the typing here
and you can store a list with any of these types.
That's what generics bring in generics.
I love me to make the class type independent so I can use the same class for different types of objects.
The way we declare a generic type is very simple.
Right so each class name of the class.
And what generic with you would want to use if you want to use multiple generic types and there are
three classes then you can separate them by a comma.
So I can have a B.
Type 2 type 3.
I mean how many how many other Jandek type that you would want to use in the previous example when we
look the mail is generally of B then can be any class but it's possible that you might want to put a
restriction.
So you'd want only the subclasses of numbers.
So in that kind of situation you can say the extent number.
So in this kind of a situation then only subclasses of numbers are allowed as a type in here.
So you can pass an integer that I loved but if you try and put string in here that's not really allowed
because string is not extending number.
So the way you restrict the types which you want to love is by using one of the ways you can do that
is by using extent the other way you can do that is by extent using super.
So I can take the super number then only one of the super classes of numbers can be used.
So these are the two things you can use to restrict the types of which you allow in here.
So you can either hit the essence number then all subclasses of number can be used to create the object
or you can set the super number then only the superclasses of numbers are allowed to be used as types.
Generics are not limited just to types.
So you can even create a method.
So here I'm saying this X Stintz number is type So this x x is a type which extends number and I can
use it as a parameter and I can do operations on it.
And then I can call this do something with any argument or any parameter which matches the constraint
which is present in here so x extents number.
If your argument is the type of your object matches that then you can use it to call the specific method.
This is called Gendry met so in the short video we started with water genetics.
We saw how genetics make programs more flexibly.
We saw how to place restrictions using throughput and extent.
And also we looked at how you make and make a generic you can create a general comment there as well.
So those are the different things that we discuss as part of this step until the next do.
But like.